Shown Here:Public Law (04/24/2024)This act provides FY2024 supplemental appropriations to several federal agencies for assistance to Ukraine, Israel, and U.S. allies in the Indo-Pacific region. The act also addresses various foreign policy issues.The funding provided by the act is designated as emergency spending, which is exempt from discretionary spending limits.DIVISION A--ISRAEL SECURITY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024Israel Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024This division provides FY2024 supplemental appropriations for federal departments and agencies to respond to the conflict in Israel.TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSEThis title provides appropriations to the Department of Defense (DOD) forOperation and Maintenance,Procurement, andDefense Production Act Purchases.The title provides the funding for purposes such assupporting current U.S. military operations in the region;replacing defense articles that were provided to Israel;reimbursing DOD for defense services and training provided to Israel; andprocuring Israel's Iron Dome, David's Sling, and Iron Beam defense systems to counter short-range rocket threats.(Sec.101) This section provides additional funding to DOD for U.S. operations, force protection, deterrence, and the replacement of combat expenditures in the U.S. Central Command region.TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITYThis title provides appropriations to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for Operations and Support and Federal Assistance, including funding for the Nonprofit Security Grant Program.TITLE III--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCYThis title provides appropriations to the Department of State for the Administration of Foreign Affairs, includingDiplomatic Programs,the Office of the Inspector General, andEmergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service.The title also provides appropriations to the State Department and the President forthe U.S. Agency for International Development’s (USAID’s) Office of Inspector General,International Disaster Assistance,Migration and Refugee Assistance,International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement,Peacekeeping Operations, andthe Foreign Military Financing Program.(Sec. 301) This section permits specified funds deposited in the Consular and Border Security Programs account to be transferred to the State Department’s Diplomatic Programs (including for Worldwide Security Protection) and Emergencies in the Diplomatic and Consular Service accounts for emergency evacuations or to prevent or respond to security situations and related requirements.(Sec. 302) This section increases the FY2024 funding cap for the Presidential Drawdown Authority, which authorizes the President to immediately transfer defense articles and services from U.S. stocks to a foreign country or international organization to respond to an unforeseen emergency(Sec. 303) This section increases the FY2024 funding cap for the Presidential Drawdown Authority that authorizes the President to draw down articles and services from the inventory and resources of any federal agency and provide them to foreign countries or international organizations for certain purposes (e.g., international disaster assistance, nonproliferation assistance, and migration and refugee assistance) if the drawdown is in the national interest.(Sec. 304) This section increases the FY2024 funding cap for the Presidential Drawdown Authority that authorizes the President to direct the drawdown of commodities and services from the inventory and resources of any federal agency for peacekeeping operations if the President determines that an unforeseen emergency requires the immediate provision of such assistance.(Sec. 305) This section amends provisions of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2005 that allow the President to transfer certain categories of defense articles to Israel in exchange for certain concessions (i.e., cash compensation, services, a waiver of charges otherwise payable by the United States, and other items of value).Among other changes, the section expands the authority toallow the transfer of all categories of defense articles,remove the requirement that the articles be obsolete or surplus items,remove the requirement that the value of the concession negotiated with Israel be at least equal to the fair market value of the items transferred, andallow the President to shorten the current 30-day advance notice requirement during extraordinary circumstances impacting the national security of the United States.(Sec. 306) This section waives the FY2024 limits on the value of defense articles that DOD is permitted transfer into the War Reserve Stockpile Allies-Israel (WRSA-I). Specifically, the section specifies that the limits do not apply to defense articles to be set aside, earmarked, reserved, or intended for use as reserve stocks in stockpiles in Israel.(Sec. 307) This section sets forth authorities for transferring certain funds provided by this division.(Sec. 308) This section prohibits funds from being used for payments to the U.N. Relief and Works Agency.(Sec. 309) This section establishes oversight requirements for funds provided by this title. For example, this section requires funds provided by this title to be made available for third party monitoring of assistance for Gaza. This section also makes specified funds available for the State Department’s Office of Inspector General and USAID’s Office of Inspector General.(Sec. 310) This section requires the State Department to submit spending plans and operating plans for specified funds provided by this title.TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS DIVISION(Sec. 401) This section specifies that the funds provided by this division are in addition to funds otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year involved.(Sec. 402) This section prohibits funds provided by this division from remaining available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless this division expressly provides otherwise.(Sec. 403) Unless otherwise specified by this division, the funds provided by this division are subject to the authorities and conditions that apply to the applicable appropriations accounts for FY2024.(Sec. 404) This section requires the State Department to brief Congress on the status and welfare of hostages being held in Gaza.(Sec. 405) This section specifies that funds provided by this division for foreign assistance (including foreign military sales), for the State Department, for broadcasting subject to supervision of U.S. Agency for Global Media, and for intelligence or intelligence-related activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for the purposes of specified laws.(Sec. 406) This section specifies that funds designated as emergency spending by this division are only available if the President subsequently designates all of the funds as emergency spending and transmits the designations to Congress.(Sec. 407) This section specifies that funds that are designated by this division as emergency spending and are transferred pursuant to authorities provided by this division shall retain the emergency designations.DIVISION B--UKRAINE SECURITY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024Ukraine Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024This division provides FY2024 supplemental appropriations for federal departments and agencies to respond to the conflict in Ukraine.TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSEThis title provides appropriations to the Department of Defense (DOD) forMilitary Personnel;Operation and Maintenance;Procurement;Research, Development, Test and Evaluation; andthe Office of the Inspector General.The title also provides funding for the Intelligence Community Management Account.The title provides the funding for purposes such assupporting current U.S. military operations in the region,the Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative,replacing defense articles that were provided to Ukraine, andreimbursing DOD for defense services and training provided to Ukraine.(Sec. 101) This section sets forth authorities for transferring funds provided by this title.(Sec. 102) This section requires DOD and the State Department to submit a report to Congress on measures being taken to account for U.S. defense articles designated for Ukraine since the February 24, 2022, Russian invasion of Ukraine. The report must include a description of any occurrences of articles not reaching their intended recipients or not being used for their intended purposes and a description of any remedies taken.(Sec. 103) This section requires DOD and the State Department to submit a report to Congress that describes U.S. security assistance provided to Ukraine since the February 24, 2022, Russian invasion of Ukraine.TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGYThis title providers appropriations to the Department of Energy (DOE) science programs for acquisition, distribution, and equipment for development and production of medical, stable, and radioactive isotopes.It also provides appropriations to the National Nuclear Security Administration for (1) Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, and (2) Federal Salaries and Expenses.TITLE III--DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICESThis title provides appropriations to the Administration for Children and Families for Refugee and Entrant Assistance.(Sec. 301) This section expands the authority to provide resettlement assistance and other benefits to certain Ukrainians to include eligible Ukrainians arriving in the United States during FY2024.TITLE IV--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCYThis title provides appropriations to the Department of State for the Administration of Foreign Affairs, including for Diplomatic Programs and the Office of the Inspector General.The title provides appropriations to the U.S. Agency for International Development for (1) Operating Expenses, and (2) the Office of the Inspector General.The title also provides appropriations to the State Department and the President forTransition Initiatives;the Economic Support Fund;Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia;International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement;Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs; andthe Foreign Military Financing Program.(Sec. 401) This section increases the FY2024 funding cap for the Presidential Drawdown Authority, which authorizes the President to immediately transfer defense articles and services from U.S. stocks to a foreign country or international organization to respond to an unforeseen emergency(Sec. 402) This section increases the FY2024 funding cap for the Presidential Drawdown Authority that authorizes the President to draw down articles and services from the inventory and resources of any federal agency and provide them to foreign countries or international organizations for certain purposes (e.g., international disaster assistance, nonproliferation assistance, and migration and refugee assistance) if the drawdown is in the national interest.(Sec. 403) This section increases the FY2024 funding cap for the Presidential Drawdown Authority that authorizes the President to direct the drawdown of commodities and services from the inventory and resources of any federal agency for peacekeeping operations if the President determines that an unforeseen emergency requires the immediate provision of such assistance.(Sec. 404) This section sets forth authorities for transferring funds provided by this division.(Sec. 405) This section allows funds provided by this division for the Economic Support Fund to be made available for direct financial support for the government of Ukraine, including for Ukrainian first responders, and as a cash transfer.(Sec. 406) This section prohibits funds provided by this title from being made available for assistance to the governments of Russia or Belarus, including entities owned or controlled by such governments.(Sec. 407) This section permits certain funds to be used for direct loans and loan guarantees under the Arms Export Control Act for major non-NATO allies and the Indo-Pacific region. The funds may only be used for this purpose if the State Department certifies that the direct loan or loan guarantee is in the national security interest of the United States, is being provided in response to exigent circumstances, is addressing a mutually agreed upon emergency requirement of the recipient country, and the recipient country has a plan to repay the loan.(Sec. 408) This section allows funds provided by this title for the Economic Support Fund and Assistance for Europe, Eurasia and Central Asia to be made available as contributions after Congress is consulted.(Sec. 409) This section requires the State Department and USAID to submit spending plans and operating plans for specified funds provided by this title.TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS DIVISION(Sec. 501) This section specifies that the funds provided by this division are in addition to funds otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year involved.(Sec. 502) This section prohibits funds provided by this division from remaining available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless this division expressly provides otherwise.(Sec. 503) Unless otherwise specified by this division, the funds provided by this division are subject to the authorities and conditions that apply to the applicable appropriations accounts for FY2024.(Sec. 504) This section requires DOD to submit to Congress a strategy regarding U.S. support for Ukraine against aggression by Russia.(Sec. 505) This section requires the President to transfer long-range Army Tactical Missile Systems to Ukraine to assist Ukraine in defending itself and achieving victory against Russia. The President may withhold the transfer if executing the transfer would be detrimental to national security, and Congress is notified.(Sec. 506) This section requires the Department of State, to the maximum extent practicable, to ensure that specified funds provided by this division and made available for project-based assistance for Ukraine are subject to in-person monitoring by U.S. personnel or by vetted third party monitors.In addition, the section requires the State Department and USAID to jointly certify and report to Congress that mechanisms for monitoring and oversight of funds are in place and functioning to ensure accountability of such funds to prevent waste, fraud, abuse, diversion, and corruption.Finally, the section prohibits funds provided for the Economic Support Fund and Assistance for Europe, Eurasia, and Central Asia from being used for contributions to the government of Ukraine if the funds exceed 50% of the total amount provided for such assistance by all donors. The President may waive this requirement if it is in the national security interest.(Sec. 507) This section requires the President to enter into an arrangement with Ukraine regarding repaying the United States for the economic assistance provided by this division. It also prohibits the arrangement from providing for the cancellation of debt unless specified requirements are met, including the completion of a congressional review process.(Sec. 508) This section establishes procedures and requirements for a congressional review process for presidential actions to cancel debt incurred by Ukraine with respect to economic assistance provided by the United States.(Sec. 509) This section specifies that funds provided by this division for foreign assistance (including foreign military sales), for the State Department, for broadcasting subject to supervision of U.S. Agency for Global Media, and for intelligence or intelligence-related activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for the purposes of specified laws.(Sec. 510) This section specifies that funds designated as emergency spending by this division are only available if the President subsequently designates all of the funds as emergency spending and transmits the designations to Congress.(Sec. 511) This section specifies that funds that are designated by this division as emergency spending and are transferred pursuant to authorities provided by this division shall retain the emergency designations.DIVISION C--INDO-PACIFIC SECURITY SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2024Indo-Pacific Security Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2024This division provides FY2024 supplemental appropriations for the Department of State and the Department of Defense (DOD) to support U.S. allies and activities in the Indo-Pacific region.TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSEThis title provides appropriations to the Department of Defense (DOD) forOperation and Maintenance;Procurement;Defense Production Act Purchases; andResearch, Development, Test and Evaluation,The title provides the funding for purposes such as (1) providing replacements or reimbursements for defense articles and services that DOD provided to Taiwan and countries that have supported Taiwan, and (2) improving the submarine industrial base.(Sec. 101) This section provides additional funding to DOD for unfunded priorities of the U.S. Indo-Pacific Command for FY2024. The section also specifies congressional reporting and notification requirements for the funding.TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSEThis title provides appropriations to the Navy and Marine Corps for Military Construction. The funding is provided to support improvements to the submarine industrial base and for related expenses.TITLE III--DEPARTMENT OF STATE AND RELATED AGENCYThis title provides appropriations to the State Department for the Foreign Military Financing Program.It also provides appropriations for a contribution to the International Development Association Special Program to Enhance the Crisis Response Window.(Sec. 301) This section increases the FY2024 funding cap for the Presidential Drawdown Authority, which authorizes the President to immediately transfer defense articles and services from U.S. stocks to a foreign country or international organization to respond to an unforeseen emergency(Sec. 302) This section increases the FY2024 funding cap for the Presidential Drawdown Authority that authorizes the President to draw down articles and services from the inventory and resources of any federal agency and provide them to foreign countries or international organizations for certain purposes (e.g., international disaster assistance, nonproliferation assistance, and migration and refugee assistance) if the drawdown is in the national interest.(Sec. 303) This section increases the FY2024 funding cap for the Presidential Drawdown Authority that authorizes the President to direct the drawdown of commodities and services from the inventory and resources of any federal agency for peacekeeping operations if the President determines that an unforeseen emergency requires the immediate provision of such assistance.(Sec. 304) This section permits certain funds to be used for direct loans and loan guarantees under the Arms Export Control Act for major non-NATO allies and the Indo-Pacific region. The funds may only be used for this purpose if the State Department certifies that the direct loan or loan guarantee is in the national security interest of the United States, is being provided in response to exigent circumstances, is addressing a mutually agreed upon emergency requirement of the recipient country, and the recipient country has a plan to repay the loan(Sec. 305) This section requires the State Department and the Department of the Treasury to submit spending plans for the funds provided by this title.TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS--THIS DIVISION(Sec. 401) This section specifies that the funds provided by this division are in addition to funds otherwise appropriated for the fiscal year involved.(Sec. 402) This section prohibits funds provided by this division from remaining available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless this division expressly provides otherwise.(Sec. 403) Unless otherwise specified by this division, the funds provided by this division are subject to the authorities and conditions that apply to the applicable appropriations accounts for FY2024.(Sec. 404) This section specifies that funds provided by this division for foreign assistance (including foreign military sales), for the State Department, for broadcasting subject to supervision of U.S. Agency for Global Media, and for intelligence or intelligence-related activities are deemed to be specifically authorized by the Congress for the purposes of specified laws.(Sec. 405) This section specifies that funds designated as emergency spending by this division are only available if the President subsequently designates all of the funds as emergency spending and transmits the designations to Congress.(Sec. 406) This section specifies that funds that are designated by this division as emergency spending and are transferred pursuant to authorities provided by this division shall retain the emergency designations.DIVISION D--21ST CENTURY PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH ACT21st Century Peace through Strength ActDIVISION E--FEND OFF FENTANYL ACTFentanyl Eradication and Narcotics Deterrence Off Fentanyl or the FEND Off Fentanyl ActTITLE I--SANCTIONS MATTERSSubtitle A--Sanctions in Response to National Emergency Relating to Fentanyl Trafficking(Sec. 3101) This section expresses that the policy of the United States is to apply economic and other financial sanctions to those who engage in the international trafficking of fentanyl, fentanyl precursors, or other related opioids.(Sec. 3102) This section provides statutory authority for the President to exercise national emergency authorities to impose sanctions on those engaged in international fentanyl trafficking and requires the President to report to Congress on actions taken related to such sanctions or the declaration of a related national emergency.(Sec. 3103) The President shall impose property-blocking sanctions on foreign persons (i.e., individuals and entities) knowingly involved in (1) trafficking of fentanyl or related opioids, or (2) the activities of a transnational criminal organization engaged in such trafficking.(Sec. 3104) This section applies civil and criminal penalties for violations associated with presidential emergency economic powers to international trafficking of fentanyl; it also provides for a waiver for sanctions if the President determines it is in U.S. national security interests and exceptions for intelligence activities, law enforcement, international obligations, and humanitarian assistance.(Sec. 3105) This section requires any forfeited property from the imposition of sanctions on certain transnational criminal organizations to be deposited in the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund.Subtitle B--Other Matters(Sec. 3111) This section establishes a 10-year statute of limitations on violations of sanctions imposed under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act or the Trading With The Enemy Act.(Sec. 3112) Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control must provide a classified report and briefing to Congress on its staffing.(Sec. 3113) This section requires Treasury to provide a classified report and briefing to Congress on efforts to target drug transportation routes and modalities.(Sec. 3114) This section requires Treasury to provide a classified report and briefing to Congress on Chinese actions with respect to persons involved in the trafficking of fentanyl.TITLE II--ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING MATTERS(Sec. 3201) This section authorizes Treasury, to address money laundering in connection with illicit opioid trafficking, to (1) prohibit or impose conditions on transmittals of funds by domestic financial institutions, or (2) require such institutions to take special measures for certain accounts or transactions.(Sec. 3202) This section requires Treasury's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network to issue guidance or instructions to U.S. financial institutions for filing reports on suspicious transactions related to suspected fentanyl trafficking by transnational criminal organizations.(Sec. 3203) Treasury must report to Congress (in its first update to a currently required strategy on combating the financing of terrorism) on trade-based money laundering originating in Mexico or China and involving Burma.TITLE III--EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF GOODS(Sec. 3301) This section excepts the importation of goods from any authorization or requirement for imposing sanctions under this division.DIVISION F--REBUILDING ECONOMIC PROSPERITY AND OPPORTUNITY FOR UKRAINIANS ACTRebuilding Economic Prosperity and Opportunity for Ukrainians Act or the REPO for Ukrainians ActTITLE II--REPURPOSING OF RUSSIAN SOVEREIGN ASSETS(Sec. 103) This section prohibits the release of any Russian sovereign asset (funds and property of the Russian Central Bank, the Russian National Wealth Fund, or the Russian Ministry of Finance, as well as any other funds or property owned by the Russian government) until the President certifies to Congress that hostilities between Russia and Ukraine have ended and full compensation has been made to Ukraine. A release may be prohibited by a joint resolution of disapproval enacted into law.(Sec. 104) This section requires financial institutions to notify Treasury of any Russian sovereign assets located at the institution. The President must report to Congress on the status of these assets and may seize, confiscate, transfer, or vest any Russian (or Belarusian, if Belarus has engaged in an act of war against Ukraine) sovereign assets subject to U.S. jurisdiction and transfer them to a Ukraine Support Fund. The Ukraine Support Fund shall be used by the State Department to provide assistance to Ukraine for damages caused by the Russian invasion. The fund may be used to provide support to Ukraine via (1) an international body or mechanism to provide compensation or assistance, (2) reconstruction and recovery efforts, and (3) economic and humanitarian assistance.(Sec. 105) The President shall coordinate with the G7, the European Union, Australia, and other partners and allies regarding the disposition of immobilized Russian or Belarusian assets to establish an international mechanism for assisting Ukraine, which may include the establishment of an international Ukraine Compensation Fund to which seized assets transferred to the Ukraine Support Fund may be transferred.DIVISION G--OTHER MATTERS(Sec. 1) This section requires the President to identify to Congress each foreign person who (1) is currently subject to certain European Union or United Kingdom sanctions, and (2) meets the criteria for imposition of certain U.S. sanctions.(Sec. 2) DOD and the State Department must include a component on Chinese emerging technology developments as part of the annual China Military Power report to Congress. The full report is required in current law.DIVISION H-- PROTECTING AMERICANS FROM FOREIGN ADVERSARY CONTROLLED APPLICATIONS ACTProtecting Americans from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act(Sec. 2) This division prohibits distributing, maintaining, updating, or providing internet hosting services for a foreign adversary controlled application (e.g., TikTok). However, the prohibition does not apply to a covered application that executes a qualified divestiture as determined by the President.Under the division, aforeign adversary controlled applicationis an application directly or indirectly operated by (1) ByteDance, Ltd., TikTok, their subsidiaries, successors, related entities they control, or entities controlled by a foreign adversary country; or (2) a social media company that is controlled by a foreign adversary country and determined by the President to present a significant threat to national security. (Here, a social media company excludes any website or application primarily used to post product reviews, business reviews, or travel information and reviews.)For the purposes of this division, a foreign adversary country includes North Korea, China, Russia, and Iran.Aqualified divestitureis a transaction that the President has determined (through an interagency process)would result in the relevant foreign adversary controlled application no longer being controlled by a foreign adversary, andprecludes the establishment or maintenance of any operational relationship between the U.S. operations of the relevant application and any formerly affiliated entities that are controlled by a foreign adversary (including any cooperation with respect to the operation of a content recommendation algorithm or a data-sharing agreement).The prohibition applies 270 days after the date of the division’s enactment. The division authorizes the President to grant a one-time extension of up to 90 days to a covered application when the President has certified to Congress that (1) a path to executing a qualified divestiture of the covered application has been identified, (2) evidence of significant progress toward executing such qualified divestiture of the covered application has been produced, and (3) relevant legal agreements to enable execution of such qualified divestiture during the period of such extension are in place.Additionally, the division requires a covered foreign adversary controlled application to provide a user with all available account data (including posts, photos, and videos) at the user's request before the prohibition takes effect. The account data must be provided in a machine-readable format.The division authorizes the Department of Justice to investigate violations and enforce its provisions. Entities that that violate the division are subject to civil penalties for violations. An entity that violates the prohibition on distributing, maintaining, updating, or providing internet hosting services for a covered application is subject to a maximum penalty of $5,000 multiplied by the number of U.S. users who have accessed, maintained, or updated the application as a result of  the violation. An entity that violates the requirement to provide account data to a user upon request is subject to a maximum penalty of $500 multiplied by the number of U.S. users impacted by the violation.(Sec. 3) The division gives the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia exclusive jurisdiction over any challenge to the division. A challenge to the division must be brought within 165 days after the division’s enactment date. A challenge to any action, finding, or determination under the division must be brought with 90 days of the action, finding, or determination.DIVISION I--PROTECTING AMERICANS’ DATA FROM FOREIGN ADVERSARIES ACT OF 2024Protecting Americans' Data from Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications Act of 2024This division makes it unlawful for a data broker to sell, license, rent, trade, transfer, release, disclose, or otherwise make available specified personally identifiable sensitive data of individuals who reside in the United States to North Korea, China, Russia, or Iran or an entity controlled by such a country (e.g., headquartered in or owned by a person in the country).Sensitive data includes government-issued identifiers (e.g., Social Security numbers), financial account numbers, biometric information, genetic information, precise geolocation information, and private communications (e.g., texts or emails).A data broker generally includes an entity that sells or otherwise provides data of individuals that the entity did not collect directly from the individuals. A data broker does not include an entity that transmits an individual's data or communications at the request or direction of the individual or an entity that makes news or information available to the general public.The division provides for enforcement by the Federal Trade Commission.DIVISION J--SHIP ACTStop Harboring Iranian Petroleum Act or the SHIP Act(Sec. 3) This section requires the President to impose property- and visa-blocking sanctions on foreign persons operating ports, ships, and refineries supporting Iranian petroleum exports. The President may impose sanctions prohibiting docking at U.S. ports of vessels involved with Iranian petroleum exports as well. Sanctions under this section shall not apply to transactions for the provision of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, medical devices, or humanitarian assistance. The President may waive the imposition of such sanctions on a foreign person for up to 180 days for national security interests.(Sec. 4) The Energy Information Administration shall report annually on Iran's exports of petroleum and petroleum products.(Sec. 5) This section requires the Department of State to provide a strategy and briefing to Congress on the role of China in the evasion of U.S.-imposed sanctions with respect to Iranian-origin petroleum products.DIVISION K--FIGHT CRIME ACTFight and Combat Rampant Iranian Missile Exports Act or the Fight CRIME Act(Sec. 4) This section requires the Department of State to report to Congress on various topics, including (1) a diplomatic strategy to renew international restrictions on certain missile-related activities; (2) the identities of foreign persons engaging in restricted activity under Annex B of U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231, which concerns restrictions on arms transfers to and from Iran; and (3) an analysis of the foreign and domestic supply chains that facilitate Iran's missile or drone programs.(Sec. 5) This section requires the President to impose visa- and property-blocking sanctions on foreign persons (i.e., foreign individuals, entities, and states) that are knowingly involved with Iran or Iran-aligned entities in certain missile-related activities, such as (1) acquiring, possessing, developing, transporting, transferring, or deploying missiles or related items and technology that are covered by the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR), or (2) developing missile or drone technologies. (The MTCR is an informal political understanding among states that seeks to limit missile proliferation.)The President must also impose sanctions on (1) certain adult family members of those who are subject to the sanctions discussed above, and (2) foreign persons who knowingly provide significant support to or engage in a significant transaction with those subject to the sanctions.DIVISION L--MAHSA ACTMahsa Amini Human rights and Security Accountability Act or the MAHSA Act(Sec. 2) This section requires the President to impose property- and visa-blocking sanctions on certain foreign persons (individuals and entities) affiliated with Iran.The President must periodically make determinations about whether certain existing sanctions apply to specified foreign persons and impose the applicable sanctions, including determinations concerning (1) the Supreme Leader of Iran and any official in the Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran, (2) the President of Iran and any official in the Office of the President of Iran, and (3) any entity overseen by the Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran which is complicit in supporting human rights abuses or terrorism.DIVISION M--HAMAS AND OTHER PALESTINIAN TERRORIST GROUPS INTERNATIONAL FINANCING PREVENTION ACTHamas and Other Palestinian Terrorist Groups International Financing Prevention Act(Sec. 3) This section requires the President to impose property-blocking sanctions on foreign persons that knowingly (1) provide certain types of support (such as significant financial or technological support) for acts of terrorism, or (2) engage in a significant transaction with a senior member of a group targeted by this division (i.e., Hamas, Palestinian Islamic Jihad, Al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigade, the Lion's Den, or an affiliated group) or with a senior member of a foreign terrorist organization providing support to a targeted group.(Sec. 4) This section requires the President to impose measures on foreign states that (1) provide significant material or financial support for acts of international terrorism, (2) provide significant material support to a targeted group, or (3) engage in significant transactions that materially contribute to the terrorist activities of a targeted group. The President must bar these governments for one year from receiving U.S. assistance and exports of controlled munitions and other items. Treasury must instruct U.S. leadership of international financial institutions to oppose providing assistance to an identified government for one year.(Sec. 5) This section requires the President to periodically report to Congress on specified topics related to the targeted groups, such as the groups' assets and activities and a list of foreign states that conduct significant fundraising, financing, or money laundering activities for the groups.DIVISION N--NO TECHNOLOGY FOR TERROR ACTNo Technology for Terror Act(Sec. 2) This section requires the United States to regulate the export of certain foreign-produced items destined for Iran. Such foreign-produced items to be controlled are items that are direct products of or produced in a plant that is a direct product of U.S.-origin technology subject to the Export Administration Regulations and specified in a covered Export Control Classification Number. A license shall be required to export, re-export, or in-country transfer such controlled items.DIVISION O--STRENGTHENING TOOLS TO COUNTER THE USE OF HUMAN SHIELDS ACTStrengthening Tools to Counter the Use of Human Shields Act(Sec. 3) This section extends the authority of the President to impose sanctions on foreign persons using human shields through 2030 and requires the President to impose such sanctions on each foreign person determined to be a member of Palestine Islamic Jihad who orders, controls, or otherwise directs the use of human shields. Currently, such sanctions are (1) required for users of human shields who are members of Hamas or Hezbollah or supporters of those groups, and (2) authorized for other users of human shields.(Sec. 4) The Department of Defense must report to Congress on the implications of the use of human shields by Hamas, Hezbollah, and Palestine Islamic Jihad.(Sec. 5) This section authorizes the President to impose property- and visa-blocking sanctions on foreign persons determined to have been responsible for or contributed to foreign cyber-enabled activities that pose a significant threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economic health of the United States.(Sec. 6) This section requires the President to impose property- and visa-blocking sanctions on foreign persons determined to have ordered, directed, or taken material steps to carry out any use of violence or threatened to use violence against current or former U.S. government officials.DIVISION P--ILLICIT CAPTAGON TRAFFICKING SUPPRESSION ACTIllicit Captagon Trafficking Suppression Act of 2023(Sec. 4) This section requires the President to impose sanctions on foreign persons determined to engage in activities or transactions to contribute to the illicit production and proliferation of captagon. Captagon is a marketing name for amphetamine-type stimulants. The bill requires sanctions on any foreign person the President determines (1) engages in activities or transactions contributing to the illicit production and international trafficking of captagon, or (2) knowingly receives property from those activities. The sanctions include blocking of property; ineligibility for U.S. visas, admission, or parole; and revocation of current visas.(Sec. 5) The President must report to Congress on whether certain Syrian and Hezbollah leaders meet the criteria established in this division for imposing sanctions.DIVISION Q--END FINANCING FOR HAMAS AND STATE SPONSORS OF TERRORISM ACTEnd Financing for Hamas and State Sponsors of Terrorism Act(Sec. 2) This section requires Treasury to report to Congress on the major sources of funding to Hamas, with an evaluation of U.S. efforts to undermine Hamas's ability to finance armed hostilities against Israel.(Sec. 3) Treasury shall develop a strategy, in coordination with allies and partners, to ensure that Hamas is incapable of financing armed hostilities against Israel.DIVISION R--HOLDING IRANIAN LEADERS ACCOUNTABLE ACTHolding Iranian Leaders Accountable Act of 2024(Sec. 3) This section requires the President to report on the estimated total funds held in domestic and international financial institutions by certain Iranian leaders. Treasury shall submit a report to Congress and provide a briefing identifying certain blocked assets of the Iranian government and certain Iranian leaders.(Sec. 4) U.S. financial institutions must close reported accounts and Treasury shall seek the closure of such accounts in foreign financial institutions.(Sec. 5) This section provides for certain exceptions and waivers, such as for transactions that would serve vital U.S. national interests.DIVISION S--IRAN-CHINA ENERGY SANCTIONS ACT OF 2023Iran-China Energy Sanctions Act of 2023(Sec. 2) This section prohibits U.S. financial institutions from opening or maintaining certain accounts with foreign financial institutions that (1) are Chinese and engaged in the purchase of petroleum or petroleum products from Iran; or (2) engaged in the purchase of Iranian unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), UAV parts, or related systems.DIVISION T--BUDGETARY EFFECTSThis division exempts the budgetary effects of Division D and each subsequent division of this act from (1) the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO Act), (2) the Senate PAYGO rule, and (3) certain budget scorekeeping rules.