Shown Here:Public Law (09/26/2024)Continuing Appropriations and Extensions Act, 2025This act provides continuing FY2025 appropriations for federal agencies, provides additional funding for the U.S. Secret Service, and extends various expiring programs and authorities.DIVISION A--CONTINUING APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2025Continuing Appropriations Act, 2025This division provides continuing FY2025 appropriations to federal agencies through the earlier of December 20, 2024, or the enactment of the applicable appropriations act. It is known as a continuing resolution (CR) and prevents a government shutdown that would otherwise occur if the FY2025 appropriations bills have not been enacted when FY2025 begins on October 1, 2024.The CR funds most programs and activities at the FY2024 levels with several exceptions that provide funding flexibility and additional appropriations for various programs.(Sec. 101) This section provides FY2025 appropriations to federal agencies for continuing projects or activities at the levels and under the conditions included in specified FY2024 appropriations acts. The section also extends several immigration-related programs and specifies several exceptions.(Sec. 102) This section prohibits the Department of Defense (DOD) from funding new or accelerated production of certain projects and other activities and certain multiyear procurements prior to the enactment of the regular annual appropriations act.(Sec. 103) This section specifies that funds provided by Section 101 of this division shall be available to the extent and in the manner that would be provided in the pertinent appropriations act.(Sec. 104) This section generally prohibits appropriations provided by Section 101 of this division from being used to initiate or resume any project or activity that was not funded during FY2024.(Sec. 105) This section specifies that appropriations provided by the CR are to be used to conduct FY2025 activities and programs during the period of the CR.(Sec. 106) This section continues the appropriations provided by this division through the earlier of December 20, 2024, or the enactment of the applicable appropriations act.(Sec. 107) This section requires expenditures for activities funded in this division to be charged to the full-year appropriations bill and relevant account when the applicable appropriations bill becomes law.(Sec. 108) This section waives the normal time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments of accounts funded in annual appropriations acts.(Sec. 109) This section limits disbursements for programs that would otherwise have high initial rates of operation or would complete distribution of funding at the beginning of the fiscal year if those actions would impinge on final congressional funding prerogatives.(Sec. 110) This section requires this division to be implemented so that only the most limited funding action permitted by this division is taken in order to provide for continuation of projects and activities.(Sec. 111) This section continues funding for certain appropriated entitlements and other mandatory payments with budget authority provided in an FY2024 appropriations act at the rate necessary to maintain program levels under current law. It also provides authority to obligate funds for mandatory payments that are due up to 30 days following the expiration of the CR.(Sec. 112) This section permits funding made available by this division for civilian personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency to be apportioned at the rate necessary to avoid furloughs. It also requires all necessary actions to reduce or defer non-personnel-related administrative expenses to be taken prior to using this authority.(Sec. 113) This section permits funds appropriated by this division to be obligated and expended notwithstanding specified statutory provisions restricting appropriations for foreign assistance, the Department of State, international broadcasting, and intelligence activities in the absence of prior authorizations.(Sec. 114) This section extends designations of emergency spending and disaster relief funds to funds provided by this division that previously carried those designations.(Sec. 115) This section sets forth requirements for the treatment of rescissions when federal agencies implement the funding levels provided by the CR.(Sec. 116) This section allows the Department of Agriculture's (USDA's) Farm Service Agency to apportion funding for the Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund Program account at the rate necessary to accommodate approved applications for direct and guaranteed farm ownership loans and direct farm operating loans.(Sec. 117) This section allows USDA to apportion funding at the rate necessary to maintain authorized activities of the Rural Housing Service's Rural Community Facilities Program.(Sec. 118) This section allows USDA to apportion funding at the rate necessary to maintain participation in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC).(Sec. 119) This section allows USDA to apportion funding at the rate necessary to maintain the current program caseload for the Commodity Supplemental Food Program.(Sec. 120) This section extends various authorities under the Livestock Mandatory Reporting Act of 1999 through the duration of the CR. The act requires buyers of live cattle, swine, and lamb and sellers of wholesale beef, pork, and lamb to report prices, volumes, and other marketing characteristics to USDA's Agricultural Marketing Service.(Sec. 121) This section extends the authorization for the U.S. Parole Commission.(Sec. 122) This section permits the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to use specified funds to provide compensation for reserving and operating 3.6 million acre-feet of pre-planned flood storage at Hugh Keenleyside Dam in Canada to minimize the flood risk in the Columbia River Basin in the United States.(Sec. 123) This section extends the authorizations for Bureau of Reclamation activities related to fish recovery programs in the Upper Colorado River Basin and the San Juan River Basin. The programs were developed to protect and restore listed fish species on the Colorado River and its tributaries, in accordance with the Endangered Species Act. The extensions apply through the duration of the CR.(Sec. 124) This section makes specified funds available to the Department of the Treasury Office of Inspector General to continue oversight activities related to the Coronavirus Relief Fund and the Emergency Rental Assistance program.(Sec. 125) This section provides additional funding to the Office of Administration within the Executive Office of the President for activities related to the presidential transition.(Sec. 126) This section provides additional funding to the District of Columbia for costs associated with emergency planning and security activities related to the January 2025 Presidential Inauguration.(Sec. 127) This section removes the requirement for a specified portion of the FY2024 funds provided for the Federal Payment to the District of Columbia Public Defender Service to be used for costs associated with relocation under a replacement lease for headquarters offices, field offices, and related facilities.(Sec. 128) This section authorizes the District of Columbia to spend local funds at the rates set forth in the Fiscal Year 2025 Local Budget Act of 2024 for programs and activities that were funded in FY2024.(Sec. 129) This section provides additional funding to the General Services Administration for expenses related to the presidential transition.(Sec. 130) This section provides additional funding to the National Archives and Records Administration to carry out presidential transition activities under the Presidential Records Act of 1978.(Sec. 131) This section provides a higher rate of operations to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for transfers from certain trust funds for the administrative expenses of federal retirement and insurance programs (e.g., the Postal Service Health Benefits Program). It also decreases the rate of operations under the CR for certain other OPM functions, including employment of experts and consultants, certain veterans' medical examinations, rental of conference rooms and passenger motor vehicles, authorized reception and representation expenses, and certain federal employee travel and subsistence expenses authorized under the Voting Rights Act.(Sec. 132) This section permits the Coast Guard to use funds provided by the CR for closeout costs relating to the C–27J missionization program.(Sec. 133) This section makes a technical correction to a provision in the Don Young Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2022 that authorized the Coast Guard to acquire a commercially available polar icebreaker.(Sec. 134) This section allows the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to apportion funding for the Disaster Relief Fund at the rate necessary to carry out response and recovery activities under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act.(Sec. 135) This section allows the Secret Service to apportion funding at the rate necessary to carry out protective operations, including activities related to National Special Security Events and the 2024 presidential campaign.(Sec. 136) This section provides additional appropriations for the Secret Service to carry out protective operations, including for the 2024 presidential campaign and National Special Security Events. It also establishes various reporting requirements.(Sec. 137) This section reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program through the duration of the CR.(Sec. 138) This section extends deadlines related to claims under the Hermit’s Peak/Calf Canyon Fire Assistance Act. (The act compensates persons injured when prescribed fires in the Santa Fe National Forest in New Mexico became a wildfire.)(Sec. 139) This section provides additional funding to the National Park Service for security and visitor safety activities related to the Presidential Inaugural Ceremonies.(Sec. 140) This section extends the availability of certain funds that were provided to the National Park Service’s Historic Preservation Fund account by the Further Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, 2018 for expenses related to hurricanes. Specifically, the section makes the funds available for the liquidation of valid obligations incurred in FY2018 and FY2019.(Sec. 141) This section permits the Forest Service to apportion Wildland Fire Management Funds at the rate necessary for wildfire suppression activities.(Sec. 142) This section provides additional funding to the Indian Health Service for the costs of staffing and operating facilities that were opened, renovated, or expanded in FY2024 and FY2025.(Sec. 143) This section extends the authority for the Department of the Interior to accept public and private contributions of money and services for use by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management or the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement in conducting work in support of the exploration and development of Outer Continental Shelf energy resources, including the preparation of environmental documents.(Sec. 144) This section provides additional funding to the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the Current Population Survey.(Sec. 145) This section extends funding for the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program and related programs for the duration of the CR.(Sec. 146) This section provides death gratuity payments to the heirs of the late Representatives Sheila Jackson Lee, William Pascrell Jr., and Donald M. Payne Jr.(Sec. 147) This section permits the Navy to use funds provided by the CR to carry out military construction not otherwise authorized by law for a Trident Refit Facility project at Naval Submarine Base Kings Bay in Georgia.(Sec. 148) This section extends the authority for DOD to obligate funds for certain military construction projects.(Sec. 149) This section extends the availability of certain funds that were provided to the Department of Veterans Affairs for major construction projects.(Sec. 150) This section permits the Department of Transportation to apportion funds at the rate necessary to maintain Essential Air Service program operations.(Sec. 151) This section permits the Department of Housing and Urban Development to use certain unobligated funds that were provided in prior years for Tenant-Based Rental Assistance to support additional allocations to prevent the termination of rental assistance for families as a result of insufficient funding in the calendar year 2024 funding cycle(Sec. 152) This section waives a cap on the relative number of Senior Chief Petty Officers and Master Chief Petty Officers (E-8s and E-9s) in the Coast Guard for the duration of the CR.DIVISION B--EXTENSIONSThis division extends various expiring programs and authorities, including several public health and veterans programs.TITLE I--MISCELLANEOUS EXTENSIONS(Sec. 101) This section extends the authority of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the Department of Justice to take certain actions to mitigate a credible threat to certain facilities or assets from an unmanned aircraft system (UAS). These include certain facilities that are located in the United States and identified as high-risk and a potential target for unlawful UAS activity.(Sec. 102) This section extends the authority for DHS's Joint Task Forces through December 20, 2024.(Sec. 103) This section extends the authority for DHS’s National Cybersecurity Protection System through December 20, 2024.(Sec. 104) This section extends the authority for the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park Commission through December 20, 2024.(Sec. 105) This section extends the authority of the Department of Agriculture to replace certain Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits that were stolen through Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) card skimming, card cloning, or similar fraudulent methods. It also modifies an existing reporting requirement and requires the Government Accountability Office to submit a report that examines risks related to SNAP EBT payment system security.(Sec. 106) This section extends the authority for the Forest Service to use the Agriculture Conservation Experienced Services (ACES) program through December 20, 2024. The program allows the Forest Service to acquire skilled personnel (age 55 and older) from nonprofit partners to provide temporary technical and administrative services for conservation-related programs that are executed on or directly impacting National Forest System land.(Sec. 107) This section extends the authority for states to use timber sale revenues received under Good Neighbor Agreements.(Sec. 108) This section extends the authority for the Food for Peace program through December 20, 2024.(Sec. 109) This section extends the authority of federal agencies to provide a locality-based comparability payment to certain federal employees who are serving overseas.(Sec. 110) This section extends the authority for certain federal programs and services in Palau under the Compact of Free Association between the United States and Palau until a new federal programs and services agreement takes effect. It also modifies the process that is required for approval of a new agreement.(Sec. 111) This section extends the authority of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to rehire certain retirees without decreasing their annuity payments. The authority applies if there is (1) exceptional difficulty in recruiting or retaining a qualified employee, or (2) a temporary emergency hiring need.(Sec. 112) This section extends the authority for the USAID Office of Inspector General to rehire certain retirees without decreasing their annuity payments. The authority applies if there is (1) difficulty in recruiting or retaining a qualified employee, or (2) a temporary emergency hiring need. The section also specifies that the authority may be used to facilitate the assignment of persons for oversight of programs in countries with a humanitarian disaster or complex emergency declaration.(Sec. 113) This section extends authorities for sanctions related to human rights abuses in Hong Kong.(Sec. 114) This section changes the effective date of a provision of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2024 related to the transfer of certain air traffic system or equipment purchased with Airport Improvement Program funds to the Federal Aviation Administration. The section changes the existing October 1, 2024, effective date to December 20, 2024.TITLE II--HEALTH EXTENDERSSubtitle A--Public Health(Sec. 201) This section extends through December 20, 2024, (1) the Developmental Disabilities Surveillance and Research Program that is administered by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; (2) activities administered by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to support autism education, early detection, and intervention; and (3) the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee in HHS.(Sec. 202) This section extends through December 20, 2024, a Food and Drug Administration program that awards priority review vouchers to manufacturers of drugs that treat rare pediatric diseases.(Sec. 203) This section extends through FY2025 the availability of funding that was provided for HHS, the Department of Labor, and the Department of the Treasury to implement provisions of the No Surprises Act, which generally established federal protections from surprise medical bills and otherwise modified reporting and disclosure requirements related to health insurance.Subtitle B--Medicaid(Sec. 211) This section increases Medicaid funding for FY2023-FY2024 for the Northern Mariana Islands.Subtitle C--Medicare(Sec. 221) This section delays until 2026 certain laboratory reporting requirements that are used to determine payment rates for clinical diagnostic laboratory tests under Medicare, as well as related payment reductions.(Sec. 222) This section increases funding for the Medicare Improvement Fund beginning in FY2026.TITLE III--VETERANS EXTENDERSSubtitle A--Health Care(Sec. 301) This section extends through FY2025 the authority for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to collect copayments from certain veterans for hospital care or nursing home care.(Sec. 302) This section extends through FY2025 the requirement that the VA provide nursing home care to certain veterans with a service-connected disability.(Sec. 303) This section extends through FY2025 the authorization for the expansion of the VA’s Rural Access Network for Growth Enhancement (RANGE)  program, which serves veterans in rural areas who are experiencing mental illness.(Sec. 304) This section extends through FY2025 the VA pilot program that provides complementary and integrative health programs (e.g., animal therapy) to certain veterans for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, anxiety, or other conditions as determined by the VA.(Sec. 305) This section extends through FY2025 the authority for the Joint Department of Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund (which funds the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center).Subtitle B--Memorial Affairs(Sec. 311) This section extends through FY2025 the entitlement to memorial headstones and markers provided by the VA for certain eligible individuals whose remains are unavailable.(Sec. 312) This section extends through FY2025 the VA’s authority to bury the remains of certain spouses and children in national cemeteries.(Sec. 313) This section authorizes the use of flat grave markers at Santa Fe National Cemetery in New Mexico in any section of the cemetery in which flat markers were in use on December 22, 2023.Subtitle C--Homelessness(Sec. 321) This section extends through FY2025 the VA’s authority to provide assistance for housing adaptations for disabled veterans who are residing temporarily in housing owned by a family member.(Sec. 322) This section extends through FY2025 the specially adapted housing assistive technology grant program, through which the VA provides grants to persons or entities to develop assistive technologies for use in specially adapted housing.(Sec. 323) This section reauthorizes through FY2025 a Department of Labor grant program for programs and facilities that provide dedicated services for homeless women veterans and homeless veterans with children.(Sec. 324) This section extends through FY2025 the VA's Health Care for Homeless Veterans program, which  provides outreach, treatment, rehabilitation, and therapeutic transitional housing assistance for seriously mentally ill and homeless veterans. Additionally, the section extends the authority of the VA to operate a program to establish centers for the provision of comprehensive services to homeless veterans.(Sec. 325) This section reauthorizes through FY2025 the Supportive Services for Veterans Families program, which provides financial assistance for supportive services for very low-income veteran families in permanent housing or transitioning from homelessness.(Sec. 326) This section reauthorizes through FY2025 the VA program to provide grants to entities to encourage the development of programs for homeless veterans with special needs.Subtitle D--Other Authorities(Sec. 331) This section extends through FY2025 the authority to transport individuals to and from VA facilities in connection with vocational rehabilitation, required counseling, or for the purpose of examination, treatment, or care.(Sec. 332) This section extends through FY2025 the authority of the VA Office of Inspector General to subpoena the attendance and testimony of witnesses as necessary to carry out the duties of the office.(Sec. 333) This section extends through FY2025 the authority of the VA to maintain a regional office in the Philippines.(Sec. 334) This section reauthorizes through FY2027 the monthly assistance allowances that are provided to certain disabled veterans by the Office of National Veterans Sports Programs and Special Events. Additionally, the section transfers the administration of the Office of National Veterans Sports Programs and Special Events from the Veterans Benefits Administration to the Veterans Health Administration.(Sec. 335) This section extends through December 31, 2025, the requirement for the VA to submit a report containing a statement regarding the disposition of each case recommended to the VA for equitable relief due to administrative error.(Sec. 336) This section extends certain loan fee rates through November 29, 2031, under the VA's home loan program.(Sec. 337) This section extends through FY2025 the authority of the VA to transfer real property to other agencies, states, or public or private entities.(Sec. 338) This section extends through FY2029 the requirement that the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the VA submit with the annual budget request (1) a certification of the responsibility of the CFO for internal financial controls of the VA, and (2) an attestation that the CFO has collaborated sufficiently with subordinate officers to be confident in the financial projections included in the budget request and supporting materials.TITLE IV--BUDGETARY EFFECTS(Sec. 401) This section exempts the budgetary effects of this division from (1) the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go (PAYGO) Act of 2010, (2) the Senate PAYGO rule, and (3) certain budget scorekeeping rules.